ci: elasticsearch: Upload script index map examples (#78435)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: scripts/ci/es_upload/README.md

# ElasticSearch index map examples

This directory contains [ElasticSearch data store](https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch)

> index map examples to use them by [upload_test_results_es.py](../upload_test_results_es.py)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
index map examples for use by [upload_test_results_es.py](../upload_test_results_es.py)
```

by other tools, or rely on default data mapping with potential type misalignments.

The command examples below are simplified with parameters essential for data transformations.
For other command line options and more details run the upload script with `--help`,
or read its source code with inline comments there.

Use these examples as a reference for your setup. Always pay attention to possible changes
in the current Twister report format and in the upload script itself.
Tune resulting data scheme and size depending on your particular needs.

It is recommended to try the upload script with `--dry-run` option first
to check the resulting data without its actual upload.

You should set environment variables `ELASTICSEARCH_SERVER` and `ELASTICSEARCH_KEY`
to connect with your server running the upload script.

## Index creation with a map file

Execute the upload script once for the first time to create your index at the ElasticSearch
server with the appropriate map file, for example:
```bash
python3 ./scripts/ci/upload_test_results_es.py --create-index \
  --index YOUR_INDEX_NAME \
  --map-file YOUR_INDEX_MAP.json
```

> ## Upload tranformations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Upload transformations
```

The upload script has several command line options to change `twister.json` data:
exclude excess data, extract substrings by regular expressions, change data structure
making it suitable for Kibana default visual components
(see `--help` for more details):

* `--exclude` removes excess testsuite properties not needed to store them
  at Elasticsearch index.

> * `--transform` applies regexp group parsing rules to string propertites extracting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `--transform` applies regexp group parsing rules to string properties extracting
```

  derived object properties.

* `--flatten` changes testsuite data structure in regard of one of its list components:
  either `testcases` or `recording`, so each item there becomes an independent data record
  inheriting all other testsuite properties, whereas the children object's properties
  are renamed with the parent object's name as a prefix:
  `testcases_` or `recording_` respectively.
  Only one testsuite property object can be flattened this way per index upload.

>   All other testsuite objects will be treated accorging to the index structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  All other testsuite objects will be treated according to the index structure.
```
